---
layout: ../../../layouts/MarkdownPostLayout.astro
title: How to make a personal newsletter
pubDate: 2024-07-12
description: A small guide on how to create a personal newsletter to communicate with friends
author: Bruno Cuevas Zuviría
tags:
  - blogging
  - freetime
---

Many people reading the newsletter say, "Oh, I wish I knew how to do one.” Let me teach you so we can all remove Twitter and Instagram from our phones! Here I will give you some of my tips. This still far from perfect, but it might help you to start.

## **Is this a definitive guide?**

No, because I am still experimenting with it. I have not yet solved diffusion: I leave too many people out of the loop simply because I have not created a proper way to send the newsletter to my contacts. An exciting possibility is using something like https://slowsocial.us. I might start posting a copy of the newsletter there.

## How much time?

I try to put in one hour every month. But there is a catch: I write every day, so sometimes, I only have to copy and paste my notes. But honestly, unless you want to give a speech, pasting a few pictures and adding text to explain what goes in the picture takes only one hour.

## What tool do you use?

Canvas. It’s free, although you can pay for premium features. You can even get an AI to make an AI-generated newsletter where the AI makes up your monthly adventures! Exciting, right?

**How?**

- Think about what happened this month that is worth telling.
- Visit your photo gallery, and choose the pictures that go in.
- Use a Canvas template. There are hundreds of beautiful templates.
- Just replace their default pictures and text with yours.
- Print to PDF.
- Send.

## **What are the benefits?**

- It is a craft. Doesn’t everybody love to make crafts after the COVID lockdown?
- It helps you enhance your writing—in case you want to enhance it.
- It is intentional. It takes time to make it, which is something people appreciate.
- You are not giving away all your data to evil attention-economy corporations. Nobody can become addicted to reading newsletters, and your friends' sleep schedules will not be affected.
- It helps you stay connected with people you might not see or talk to anymore. This is especially relevant for people like me, who are living lives split by oceans.

## **What if I don’t want to make a small magazine like yours?**

Ok, that makes 100% sense. Maybe you can send your friends a long paragraph monthly in which you explain your month through regular messaging apps. Or a regular email if you have your friend's addresses.

## **The contacts agenda**

**F**or too long, we have all relied upon social networks to provide information about our friends. I recently realized that I don’t know anybody’s last name or birthday since I no longer use Facebook. But there is a handy solution: take some time to re-organize your phone agenda. I did it this month: I have removed all the people on my agenda I don’t remember anymore, I have added everybody's last names, and I am also trying to record their birthdays. It might take some time, but the benefit is increased independence from social networks.

## **Are you against social networks?**

No. This is a social network! I am against social network companies, and you can guess my reasons. But social networks predate social network companies, and we have to keep them healthy.
